DOCSP-16343: node gridfs doc (#211)
mongodb/docs-node: source/fundamentals/gridfs.txt

operation if it does not already exist. The driver only creates indexes if
they do not exist and when the bucket is empty. For more information on
GridFS indexes, see the server manual page on :manual:`GridFS Indexes </core/gridfs/#gridfs-indexes>`.

When storing files with GridFS, the driver splits the files into smaller
pieces, each represented by a separate document in the ``chunks`` collection.
It also creates a document in the ``files`` collection that contains
a file id, file name, and other file metadata. You can upload the file from
memory or from a stream. The following diagram describes how GridFS splits
files when uploading to a bucket:

.. figure:: /includes/figures/GridFS-upload.png
   :alt: A diagram that shows how GridFS uploads a file to a bucket

When retrieving files, GridFS fetches the metadata from the ``files``
collection in the specified bucket and uses the information to reconstruct
the file from documents in the ``chunks`` collection. You can read the file
into memory or output it to a stream.

.. _gridfs-create-bucket:

Create a GridFS Bucket
----------------------

To store or retrieve files from GridFS, create a bucket or get a reference

> to an existing one on a MongoDB database. Create a ``GridFSBucket``

Reviewer: Let's make the sentence about what to use task oriented.

Also at lines: 133, 163, 200, 227, 251

Author: addressed

.. _gridfs-upload-files:

Upload Files
------------

Use the ``openUploadStream()`` method from ``GridFSBucket`` to create an upload
stream for a given file name. You can use the ``pipe()`` method to
connect a Node.js ``fs`` read stream to the upload stream. The
``openUploadStream()`` method allows you to specify configuration information
such as file chunk size and other field/value pairs to store as metadata. Set
these options as parameters of ``openUploadStream()`` as shown in the
following code snippet:

.. code-block:: javascript

   fs.createReadStream('./myFile').
        pipe(bucket.openUploadStream('myFile', {
            chunkSizeBytes: 1048576,
            metadata: { field: 'myField', value: 'myValue' }
        });

See the :node-api-4.0:`openUploadStream() API documentation <classes/gridfsbucket.html#openuploadstream>` for more information.

.. _gridfs-retrieve-file-info:

Retrieve File Information
-------------------------

In this section, you can learn how to retrieve file metadata stored in the
``files`` collection of the GridFS bucket. The metadata contains information
about the file it refers to, including:

> - The id of the file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The ``_id`` of the file
```

Author: accepted

To retrieve files from a GridFS bucket, call the ``find()`` method on
the ``GridFSBucket`` instance. The method returns a ``FindCursor`` instance
from which you can access the results.

The following code example shows you how to retrieve and print file metadata
from all your files in a GridFS bucket. Among the different ways that you can
traverse the retrieved results from the ``FindCursor`` iterable, the example
below uses the ``forEach()`` method to display the results:

.. code-block:: javascript

   const cursor = bucket.find({});
   cursor.forEach(doc => console.log(doc));

The ``find()`` method accepts various query specifications and can be
combined with other methods such as ``sort()``, ``limit()``, and ``project()``.

For more information on the classes and methods mentioned in this section,
see the following resources:

- :node-api-4.0:`find() API documentation <classes/gridfsbucket.html#find>`
- :node-api-4.0:`FindCursor API documentation <classes/findcursor.html>`
- :doc:`Cursor Fundamentals page </fundamentals/crud/read-operations/cursor>`
- :doc:`Read Operations page </fundamentals/crud/read-operations/>`

.. _gridfs-download-files:

Download Files
--------------

> You can download files from your MongoDB database using the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can download files from your MongoDB database by using the
```
Apologies, I missed this the first time around

Author: fixed

======
GridFS
======

.. default-domain:: mongodb

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

Overview
--------

> Using this guide, you can learn how to store and retrieve large files in

Author: accepted

MongoDB using **GridFS**. GridFS is a specification that describes how
to split files into chunks during storage
and reassemble them during retrieval. The driver implementation of
GridFS manages the operations and organization of
the file storage. 

You should use GridFS if the size of your file exceeds the BSON-document
size limit of 16 megabytes. For more detailed information on whether GridFS is
suitable for your use case, see the :manual:`GridFS server manual page </core/gridfs>`.

Navigate the following sections to learn more about GridFS operations
and implementation:

- :ref:`Create a GridFS Bucket <gridfs-create-bucket>`
- :ref:`Upload Files <gridfs-upload-files>`
- :ref:`Retrieve File Information <gridfs-retrieve-file-info>`
- :ref:`Download Files <gridfs-download-files>`
- :ref:`Rename Files <gridfs-rename-files>`
- :ref:`Delete Files <gridfs-delete-files>`
- :ref:`Delete a GridFS Bucket <gridfs-delete-bucket>`

How GridFS Works
----------------

> GridFS organizes files in a **bucket**, which contains the following collections, named using the convention

Author: there's not a clear definition for what a bucket is outside of the fact that it refers to the container for files and chunks. I just rephrased to use a noun.

> GridFS organizes files in a **bucket**, which contains the following collections, named using the convention

Reviewer: How about the definition currently on the Java docs: 
`GridFS organizes files in a bucket, a group of MongoDB collections that contain the chunks of files and information describing them.`
https://docs.mongodb.com/drivers/java/sync/current/fundamentals/gridfs/#how-gridfs-works

I think saying its a container is sort of confusing still.

> GridFS organizes files in a **bucket**, which contains the following collections, named using the convention

Author: Okay I just used that definition. It's still a bit awkward but I think it's clear now.

defined in the GridFS specification:

- The ``chunks`` collection stores the binary file chunks.
- The ``files`` collection stores the file metadata.

When you create a new GridFS bucket, the driver creates the collections
referenced above, prefixed with the default bucket name ``fs``, unless you specify a different name. The driver also creates an index on each
collection to ensure efficient retrieval of files and related
metadata. The driver only creates the GridFS bucket on the first write
operation if it does not already exist. The driver only creates indexes if
they do not exist and when the bucket is empty. For more information on
GridFS indexes, see the server manual page on :manual:`GridFS Indexes </core/gridfs/#gridfs-indexes>`.

When storing files with GridFS, the driver splits the files into smaller
pieces, each represented by a separate document in the ``chunks`` collection.
It also creates a document in the ``files`` collection that contains
a file id, file name, and other file metadata. You can upload the file from
memory or from a stream. The following diagram describes how GridFS splits

> files for storage in a bucket:

Author: accepted

.. figure:: /includes/figures/GridFS-upload.png
   :alt: A diagram that shows how GridFS uploads a file to a bucket

When retrieving files, GridFS fetches the metadata from the ``files``
collection in the specified bucket and uses the information to reconstruct
the file from documents in the ``chunks`` collection. You can read the file
into memory or output it to a stream.

.. _gridfs-create-bucket:

Create a GridFS Bucket
----------------------

To store or retrieve files from GridFS, create a bucket or get a reference
to an existing one on a MongoDB database. Create a ``GridFSBucket``

> instance, passing a ``db`` instance as the parameter. You can use the ``GridFSBucket`` instance to

Reviewer: Issue: "Passing in a db instance" makes me wonder what it actually is. Looking at the code, it seems to be a reference to the database?

Author: changed to "database instance"

call read and write operations on the files in your bucket:

.. code-block:: javascript

   const db = client.db(dbName);
   var bucket = new mongodb.GridFSBucket(db);

To create or reference a bucket with a custom name other than the
default name ``fs``, pass your bucket name as the second parameter to the

> create() method as shown below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``create()`` method as shown below:
```

Author: accepted

.. code-block:: javascript

   var bucket = new mongodb.GridFSBucket(db, { bucketName: 'myCustomBucket' });

For more information, see the :node-api-4.0:`GridFSBucket API documentation <classes/gridfsbucket.html>`.

.. _gridfs-upload-files:

Upload Files
-----------

> ``GridFSBucket`` has an ``openUploadStream()`` method that creates an upload

Reviewer: When talking about how to do something, it should be task oriented -- this means it should be in the format of: "Use _x,_ to do _y_".

Applies to all sections.

```suggestion
Use the ``openUploadStream()`` method to create an upload stream for a given file name .
```

Author: accepted

To retrieve files from a GridFS bucket, call the ``find()`` method on
the ``GridFSBucket`` instance. The method returns a ``FindCursor`` instance
from which you can access the results.

The following code example shows you how to retrieve and print file metadata
from all your files in a GridFS bucket. Among the different ways that you can
traverse the retrieved results from the ``FindCursor`` iterable, the example
below uses the ``forEach()`` method to display the results:

.. code-block:: javascript

   const cursor = bucket.find({});
   cursor.forEach(doc => console.log(doc));

The ``find()`` method accepts various query specifications and can be
combined with other methods such as ``sort()``, ``limit()``, and ``project()``.

For more information on the classes and methods mentioned in this section,
see the following resources:

- :node-api-4.0:`find() API documentation <classes/gridfsbucket.html#find>`
- :node-api-4.0:`FindCursor API documentation <classes/findcursor.html>`
- :doc:`Cursor Fundamentals page </fundamentals/crud/read-operations/cursor>`
- :doc:`Read Operations page </fundamentals/crud/read-operations/>`

.. _gridfs-download-files:

Download Files
--------------

> You can download files from your MongoDB database using a download
> stream. ``GridFSBucket`` contains the ``openDownloadStreamByName()``
> method which creates a download stream. 

Reviewer: Suggestion: I think these two sentences can be merged to be more clear.

```suggestion
You can download files from your MongoDB database using the ``openDownloadStreamByName()``
method to create a download stream. 
```

Author: accepted

> The example below shows you how to download a file referenced

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example shows you how to download a file referenced
```
There's something in the style guide about not using _below_ and _above_. The preferred words are _following_ and _preceding_.

Reviewer: Not sure if you saw this comment earlier.

Author: addressed!

by the file name, stored in the ``filename`` field, into your working

> directory. Alternatively, you can use the ``openDownloadStream()``
> method, which takes the ``_id`` field of a file as a parameter. Note
> that if there are multiple documents with the same ``filename`` value,
> GridFS will stream the most recent file with the given name (as
> determined by the ``uploadDate`` field).

Reviewer: Suggestion: I think you should show the snippet right after saying what the snippet will show. Then after it, you can continue with the last two sentences. It might also be beneficial in showing how this alternative would look like.

```suggestion
directory. Alternatively, you can use the ``openDownloadStream()``
method, which takes the ``_id`` field of a file as a parameter. 
If there are multiple documents with the same ``filename`` value,
GridFS will stream the most recent file with the given name (as
determined by the ``uploadDate`` field).
```

Author: accepted

Reviewer: Although it may be obvious in how to do the alternative, can you provide a snippet just so the user has a visual on how they can implement it?

Author: included an example

.. code-block:: javascript

   bucket.openDownloadStreamByName('myFile').
        pipe(fs.createWriteStream('./outputFile'));

.. note::

   The GridFS streaming API cannot load partial chunks. When a download
   stream needs to pull a chunk from MongoDB, it pulls the entire chunk
   into memory. The 255 kilobyte default chunk size is usually
   sufficient, but you can reduce the chunk size to reduce memory
   overhead.

For more information on the ``openDownloadStreamByName()`` method, see
its :node-api-4.0:`API documentation <classes/gridfsbucket.html#opendownloadstreambyname>`.

.. _gridfs-rename-files:

Rename Files
------------

You can update the name of a GridFS file in your bucket by calling the
``rename()`` method. You must specify the file to rename by its ``_id`` field
rather than its file name.

.. note::

   The ``rename()`` method only supports updating the name of one file at
   a time. To rename multiple files, retrieve a list of files matching the

>    file name from the bucket, extract the file id values from the files you

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   file name from the bucket, extract the ``_id`` field from the files you
```
Since you reference the id as _id in the intro, you should keep referencing it as that to avoid any confusion to the reader.

Applies to all instances.

Author: accepted

   want to rename, and pass each file id in separate calls to the ``rename()``
   method.

The code example will show you how to update the name of the file
referenced in this document:

.. code-block:: javascript

   {
     _id: new ObjectId("60edece5e06275bf0463aaf3"),
     length: 31851832,
     chunkSize: 261120,
     uploadDate: 2021-07-13T19:43:34.237Z,
     filename: 'myFile',

>    }

Reviewer: I don't think this adds any value to the reader (and should be removed) since you already explain you need the id of a document and your example below shows that.

Author: accepted. do you think it's clear enough that a person needs to replace the ObjectId("...") with their own documents id?

Reviewer: It should be -- throughout our docs, we've used `ObjectId` without providing a sample document. Essentially, the user should know it's the default `_id` generated by the driver.

> You can use the ``rename()`` method to update the ``filename`` field to
> "newFileName" by referencing the document's ``_id`` field:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following snippet shows how to update the ``filename`` field to
"newFileName" by referencing a document's ``_id`` field:
```
